To install swim, become root and type "make install".  

To install extra and important documentation, type "make installdoc".

To remove, type "make remove".

Pod documentation is found in Conf.pm and swim.pod if you want to make
different types of documention using pod translators.  There are SGML
documents conforming to the debiandoc DTD for swimrc and swim which can be
converted using tools from the debiandoc-sgml package.

(The modules mentioned below can be located at CPAN at www.perl.com.) 

Some distributions may require this module for ftp capabilities. 

Net::FTP from libnet-perl

This module provides readline libraries.  There are other similiar modules
which also work with Perl's Term::ReadLine(3pm).

Term::ReadLine::Gnu from libterm-readline-gnu-perl or
Term::ReadLine::Perl from libterm-readline-perl-perl

Also read QUICKSTART.text or QUICKSTART.html for additional information.
_________________________________________________________________

Alternative Installation

The modules are put into /usr/lib/perl5/SWIM because this is in Perl's
@INC path, and does not violate Debian's Policy, on the other hand the
modules are rather specific to swim, although they definitely could be
used for other things. To put it in /usr/lib meant either using 'use lib
"/usr/lib"' or pushing the alternative directory into @INC doing a
'BEGIN{}', or setting the Environment variable PERL5LIB. The first method
slowed swim down, the second method caused a bad bug in SWIM::Deb, and the
third method involved trying to make a universe of shells happy, but this
is the best approach for an alternative @INC path. 

That's why there is Makefile.alternative.  If you already did a 'make
install', now do a 'make remove'.  Change the name of Makefile, and change
Makefile.alternative's name to Makefile.  You can change PREFIX in this
Makefile to /usr/local if you want to.  Follow the same steps as for the
original Makefile, but add one more step, set the Environment vaiable
PERL5LIB to the directory where the modules are.  If the PREFIX was not
changed, and you are using a bash shell then 'export PERL5LIB=/usr/lib'.

This alternative Makefile uses the tradition /usr/doc, /usr/man 
directories whereas the other Makefile uses /usr/share/doc and
/usr/share/man, this is because of Debian's adherence to the next
generation fsstnd.

