Swim's design gives it the ability to implement features which were once
just fiction.  

Most people involved with WM (Window Managers) have heard of themes.
Themes have become very popular.  You can design a real cool look for your
WM and then pass it on to other people to recreate what you have.  But,
who ever thought that themes could also apply to distributions?  The only
requirement to develop a theme from the Debian distributions is to create
a customized Packages database.  Apt can take it from there, by simply
clearing the old cache, making a new cache from this Package, and
installing everything.  This theme can even be installed along with an
existing installation because apt will figure out what needs to be done.

Themes can easily be made using swim.  Here's a list of ideas.

* A module with the capability of taking the output from apt, and creating
a database which would correlate to a successful installation without ever
installing one package.  This would essentially be a not-installed
database with one major difference, this database would represent the real
state of a successful installation.  This would allow a developer to test
a hypothetical installation, and look at it's structure.  Then a Packages
file could be made from this database and tested on a real installation. 

Although this module doesn't exist, yet, it could easily be made with a
special designated database interacting with the other functions offered
by swim's existing modules.

* Swim already allows Packages files to be made from *debs placed in the
DF - including creating a place for a personalized distribution (coming). 
A person can make there own real personalized distribution in this
manner, and then share their unique Packages file with the rest of the
world, allowing other people to recreate the state of your own
distribution on their machines.

